
Minecraft Server Rules:


Title 1: Chat Conduct


    Chapter 1.1 - Capital Words in Chat:     

First Message: It is against the rules to use more than three capitalized words in a sentence in chat. Personal pronouns and one letter words do not apply to this count. If no punctuation, end of message, or other delimiter is not present, it is up to the discretion of staff members to determine where sentences begin or end. 

Sequential Messages: Any sequential message after one with three capitalized words must contain three capital words or less. Any sequential messages must also contain at least two lowercase words per message to be considered legal. A message is considered non-sequential if eight or more lines have passed in the chat buffer since the previous message or if the player chats a line containing both all lowercase letters, with the exception of personal pronouns and one letter words, and a minimum of eighteen characters.


Chapter 1.2 - Spam in Chat:

    Spam: It is against the rules to send more than three identical messages in a row. Identical matches of chat messages are illegal if more than three are sent in a row without interruption by either twenty lines of chat in the chat buffer or at least three messages sent by the player that are not a minor variation of the message. 

    Minor Variation: A minor variation is defined as a chat message in which five or less changes to the previous message are present.

    Changes: One change is defined as any addition or removal of a character between two messages. Capitalizing or lowercase also constitutes a change.


Chapter 1.3 - Cursing in Chat:

    Cursing: All cursing is illegal in chat. Cursing includes and racial, homophobic, sexual, and pornographic content. Using misspellings of curse words are also against the rules. Misspelled characters include but are not limited to: “ph - f”, “i-1”, “o-0”, “*”, etc. Also, the use of many symbols in a row will be considered swearing: “@#~*!”. 


Chapter 1.4 - Bullying:

Bullying: It is illegal to directly or indirectly verbally assault a player in any form of chat. Harassment also includes slander. Slander is the he action or crime of making a false spoken statement damaging to a person's reputation. 


Chapter 1.5 - Private Messages: 

    Private messages generally follow the sames rules and general chat. The exception is you, the player, must report these messages in the form of a ban request.


Chapter 1.6 - Player Privacy:

    The sharing of a player’s personal information such as their real name, address, birth date, social security number, and other sensitive and personal information is against the rules unless the player permits it. This includes sending the information via private message, server mail, forums mail, or any chat channel.


Title 2: Pvp Rules

    

    Chapter 2.1 - General Combat:

    Any and all players are entitled to hunt and kill other players on every planet and          space server. Players can be killed in many different ways and most of these ways are legal. Any type of kill that is illegal will be explained in one of the following chapters. 


    Chapter 2.2 - Pvp Regions, Pvp Toggling:

        The wilderness is and always will have pvp enabled. If any player is in the wild he or she is susceptible to being killed, hunted, and raided. The follow areas are the only places where pvp is usually denied: A) Spawn Station, B) Towns, C) Factions, and D) Most world guards. However, towns, factions, and world guards have the ability for their pvp flag to be toggled on and off. Toggling the pvp flag must be done in such a manner or else it is considered illegal. Foremost, the owner of the land claim must tell, in TOWN OR FACTION chat, that he or she will be switching the flag from Off to On. At this point the flag can be switched. However, it must remain on for some time before it is toggled off. The reason it is town or faction chat is because the player entering the town or faction land is risking his odds by seeking refuge. Since the player does not belong to this town or faction he should always he prepared to be attacked. 


    Chapter 2.3 - Illegal Forms of Combat, Combat Logging:

        As mentioned before all types of combat are allowed. However, the followed are mods and items that cannot be used in combat situations. First, Macros - Macros are key and mouse bindings that can be used to make a player’s swing and damage increased at an abnormal rate and therefore giving that player an unfair advantage. Second, Client mods - client mods like Nodus that have features that allow players to hit at an extended distance and at an abnormal rate. Third, Ender Pearls - It is illegal to use ender pearls to enter/exit a players base that you could not enter without the pearls. Fourth, Using Lag - Using server lag and or locked doors to hit a player where they shouldn’t and couldn’t be normally hit is illegal i.e spamming another players locked door to hit them in their base. Fifth, Combat Logging - combat logging is leaving the server while being attacked or leaving when about to be attacked. We have a plugin that usually blocks combat log by leaving the player’s body/inventory on the server when they leave. However, in the rare circumstances in which this doesn’t work the player who logged off can be reported and the correct punishment will be dealt.






Title 3: Worldguard Rules 


Chapter 3.1 - About Worldguard:

Worldguard is a player’s own personal protection that allows them to protect their builds and themselves. This protection is set by the player by selecting two points and creating an area of protection. 


Chapter 3.2 - Worldguard Restrictions:

    A player must not set a world guard that is larger than 4,000 blocks. If a worldguard is found that is set larger than 4,000 is will be deleted. Furthermore, if a single players has more than one worldguard (on the same planet) a random one will be deleted. It is also illegal to create a world guard and toggle pvp while being hunted or attacked.


Chapter 3.3 - Worldguard Names, Members, and Flags:

    Any worldguard with an inappropriate name within the worldguard or in the name itself will be deleted immediately. Likewise, a world guard can only have one flag edited and changed. That is the “Pvp” flag. If any player’s worldguard is found with any other flags set, it will be deleted.


Title 4: Town and Faction Rules


    Chapter 4.1 - Town and Faction Names:

    All towns and factions must have an appropriate name. Any town or faction that    has an inappropriate name will be deleted and a refund will not be issued to that player.


Chapter 4.2 - Town and Faction Joining:

Since the server has two different tiers: Colonist and Pirate, each tier has its own system. Colonist may join only towns and Pirates may join only factions. If a player of the opposite rank joins/makes the opposite system i.e a colonist making/joining a faction or pirate making/joining a town that person will be removed from that group. A player my only be in one town or faction. Any player caught in multiple towns will be kicked out of one of the towns of our choosing.


Chapter 4.3 - Town and Faction Claiming:

    Both towns and faction my claim as much land as they please. However, a town or faction cannot claim within 150 blocks of another settlement (unless both parties agree). This also includes world guards. The following is only apparent for FACTIONS: factions are allowed to over claim the land of another faction if their power is low enough. You CANNOT claim over a town with a faction or claim over a faction with a town. 




Title 5: Ship Rules


    Chapter 5.1 -  Ship Construction 

To qualify as a ship, the craft in question must follow the following rules:

1) The ship must not have any openings that would allow a player to leave the ship without the use of a trapdoor, boarding ramp, door, docking tube, or any other sort of toggle enabled door.

2) The ship must not be a graphically inappropriate or obscene design.

3) Rule 1 does not apply to ships that fly Y (block height) < 50 on a planet world. The rule does apply if a ship under 50 is flown above 50.


Illegal ships will be stopped by a staff member. Once stopped, the mod will explain what is illegal with the ship and then give the player a chance to fix the ship to meet qualifications. If the player is unable to fix it, then a staff member will forcibly break it.




Title 6: Griefing and Raiding:


Chapter 6.1 -  General Rules for Griefing and Raiding:

    On Starquest, both griefing and raiding are allowed on the server. If something is not properly protected or not protected at all it is 100% LEGAL to take it or from it. However, there are certain exceptions/restrictions that apply to this rule that will be explained below.


Chapter 6.2 - Worldguard Raiding:

    If a worldguard is not properly set and items/ships are left outside of it, you CAN steal it. However, it is illegal to use cannons or explosions to break ship signs to steal that ship. However, you can use cannons to break open walls to a base to steal items. Since worldguards still allow chest access a player is allowed to steal from these chest. 


Chapter 6.3 - Town/Faction Raiding:

    It is also legal to steal things that are improperly protected by a town. If it is on the border, misclaimed, or just incorrectly parked/placed you are allow to steal it. However, in the event of a town or faction being reset, lost, or deleted due to a bug or glitch it becomes illegal to steal anything from that area until that town/faction is fixed.


Chapter 6.4 - Town/Faction Griefing:

Starquest itself allows griefing everywhere. The only places that cannot be griefed is a protected area. However, players are NOT allowed to use water, lava, and other means to grief a protected area. It is legal to steal from these areas but you cannot you natural elements to destroy a protected area.  




Title 7: Player Rights:

    

    Chapter 7.1 - Player Privacy

 All players have a privilege to privacy. Staff of any level cannot spy, watch, or teleport to players who have not specifically asked for assistance from a staff member. Staff who violate this rule can be reported by players. Senior Staff and above are allowed to investigate players without announcing their presence if the player has been suspected of breaking the rules. Trial Mods and Mods do not have this privilege of investigatory rights.

    

    Chapter 7.2 - Staffing Limitations

Players assume all responsibility for their actions, words, and choices. If a player lies to a staff member about an investigation, refund, glitch, or other staff involved activity, then the player loses their privilege to get help from staff members for that incident. Future incidents of lying may result in a ban.


Title 8: Player Conduct


    Chapter 8.1 - AFK

        AFK (Being Away From Keyboard) in and of itself is not against the rules. If you are AFK'ing for over 15 minutes, the auto kick timer will kick you from the server. Trying to bypass or circumvent this AFK auto kick is considered against the rules. The use of roller coasters, water ponds, piston pushers, or any other circumvention device is illegal.


    Chapter 8.2 - Threats and Harassment

Threatening to harm a player in a real life facility is against the rules. For in-game threats to be considered legal, they must specifically contain causes such as: “You took my wheat! I’ll come raid it back!”, “You killed my crew! I’ll get you back once they respawn!”, or “You ate my chicken! I’ll get you back for this heinous crime!”. Additionally, harassing a player is against the rules. 

Harassment is defined as any form of prodding for information, any form of relentless aggression to a player, or  any constant verbal or physical abuse to a player. This includes but is not limited to sexual harassment, verbal harassment, harassment for personal information, and raiding harassment.


Chapter 8.3 - Building rules

    Building 1x1 towers of material to get to a higher Y coordinate higher than 50 is illegal unless the material being used has a value of higher than 15 Credits. Towers and scaffolds of less than 15 value are legal as long as the scaffold is directly around a building under construction.



Title 9: Rankups and Perks


Chapter 9.1 - Rankups

        Starquest has two main tiers Pirate and Colonist. When a player first joins he or she makes an application, once accepted that player becomes a settler rank. At this point the player must choose to become a Pirate or a Colonist.


Chapter 9.2 - Switching Tiers:

        If a player want to switch tiers he or she will be reset to settler and must earn that rank legitimately. However, if a player donated for a rank and would like to switch to the opposite tier he will be switch to the rank below that one he or she was in the opposite tier. For example, If a player was a Warlord and he donated and he wanted to switch to the colonist tier he would become and Affluent, not Tycoon.


Chapter 9.3 - Perks

    Starquest offers an extensive amount of perks that give players access to special abilities and commands. Any player caught abusing one of the perks will be banned and that perk will be taken away and a refund will NOT be given. More importantly, the most abused perk is Moving Parts. Abused to the point I will mention it here. Using moving parts to duplicate items or using it to grief will result in a two week, non appealable ban. You will be deranked on the server and no refund will be given.


Title 10: Miscellaneous Rules


Chapter 10.1 - Ads

    Any direct or indirect mention of another server name or IP is against the rules, regardless of whether you endorse it or not. However you are allowed to talk about Mini game or game servers. Since these servers fall out of the normal category of servers they are allowed to be discussed. These servers MUST be only mini game servers i.e TheHiveMC or Hypixel. 


Chapter 10.2 - Alt Accounts

    An Alt account is just you on another player. These accounts are not illegal by itself but it is very easy for them to become illegal. Alt accounts are illegal if you are using them to bypass a ban in any way. If a player is caught doing this his alt account will be banned and the main ban will be extended. Furthermore, using an alt to keep machines and farms and such going is very illegal and will result in a ban. Finally, it is illegal to use an alt account to gain faction or towny land power. 


Chapter 10.3 - Rank Abuse

    Rank abuse is ranking up in an illegal manner. For example, a pirate killing his friend to rank up. In order to rank up you must the money/kills legitimately. If a player exploits or kills friends to rank up he will be deranked.


Chapter 10.4 - Ban Circumvention

    It is against the rules to try to circumvent any ban, regardless of its status. This holds true for all perma-bans and temp-bans.  


Title 11: Forums/Wiki Rules

    Chapter 11.1 - Language

        The same server chat rules apply in both the wiki and the forums.

    Chapter 11.2 - Forums Spam

        It is illegal to post more than 10 new threads in under a 24 hour period. This is considered spamming the forums. 

    Chapter 11.3 - Wiki Ruckus

        It is against the rules to intentionally post false information on the wiki. It is also illegal to delete relevant information. Players are expected to maintain the Wiki’s integrity by not posting information they are not definitively certain about.


Title 12: Ship/Item Refunds/Teleports

    

    Chapter 12.1 - Item Refunds:

        Any items that are lost are subject to refund. If you lose any item(s) and you want to have them refund you need to make a post of the forums with the following: The glitch/bug must have just occurred you cannot ask for a refund of items you lost more than 24 hours before. Furthermore, you make have a valid screenshot with an accurate time stamp from that day. However, no refund is 100% guaranteed, a mod can choose to deny a refund if it seems to suspicious or too expensive.


Chapter 12.2 - Ship Refunds:

    If you lose a ship due to world jump error or any ship-related glitch ask a mod right away to refund your ship. The mods have access to /loadship <player> this should spawn you back in the ship you had before. However, please note you do NOT refund ships that were just stolen or damaged. 


Chapter 12.3 - Teleports

Players cannot be teleported. Let me make that very clear. The only circumstance in which a player can be teleported if his or her bed spawn did not work and it was correctly set. However, once again if the mod believes that there was no bed and the player was lying the mod has the choice not to teleport the player. 

